David grêmio and Giacomo de Lomo wants
to find out where they were going and
how they managed this phenomenal feat
they've turned to the latest in
microchip technology and came up with
the perfect
gannets gadget
they fix a mini data logger to the
gannets tail feathers it's so small the
birds hardly even know it's there and
special tape means it from the easily
removed later but the interesting bit is
what's inside a global positioning
satellite receiver record speed and
position every 10 seconds accelerometer
measures every wingbeat above and below
the water once the tags in place the
gannets take off from their morning
flight as usual
beyond this point they used to be
completely off the radar no one knew
where they went or what they did
but with the help of the Gannett gadget
David and Giacomo hope to spill the
beans all they have to do is wait until
their time birds come back to the colony
and even then they remove the data
loggers which like tiny black boxes now
hold all the secrets of the gannets
oceanic flight broadly what the longer
showed was that the gannets always flew
south in the morning to the good fishing
rent and plunge dive to feed themselves
silly on anchovies and sardines and the
accelerometer will build some high
popping statistics
the gannets fold their wings just over
1/10 of a second before they hit the
water
and though they died from maybe 30
meters up the water service hardly slows
them down at all they're so streamlined
they slice through it like an arrow at
about 50 miles an hour the depth gauge
registered dives of 10 meters and the
accelerometer showed they can swim at
over 30 miles an hour before gliding up
to the surface but most surprising is
that they fed also on the way back home
and this meal they brought back to the
chicks so in the morning it was
breakfast for them and in the evening it
was taken for the kids
sometimes gannets make the round trip of
400 miles with over a hundred and thirty
two dives but by sunset they're back
home with a delicious throat full of
warm sushi for supper
no wonder they grew up so fast